Finally, we can start wrangling some data.
We will cover two different ways to manipulate our data.
The first is imperative programming using DataFrames and Python,
the second is declarative programming using SQL.
So what is the difference between imperative and declarative programming?
A loose definition is that,
imperative programming is concerned with the "How".
While declarative programming cares about the "But".
For example, your sister's birthday is coming up.
A declarative statement would be,
''Let's get the cake for Julia. "
But the imperative statement is more like,
"Let's get in the car,
drive two miles down the road to my favorite bakery,
go into the shop, select the cake from the counter,
virtuous cake, and then drive home.
In the first case, we are more concerned about the result we want to achieve.
But in the second one,
we focus on the exact steps,
how we get to the result.
In most cases, declarative systems
are an abstraction layer of an imperative system,
that takes care of figuring out the necessary steps to achieve the result.
So you might say to your mom,
"Let's get a cake for Julia" trusting her that she will know,
which bakery to go to,
how to actually get there,
and what type of cake Julia likes.
If you have used pandas DataFrames before,
you are probably familiar with how to manipulate
DataFrames programmatically.
We can chain methods such as filter and group by one after another,
transforming the DataFrame further and further.
In the next few videos, we will dive into how to do
data transformations with DataFrames and imperative programming.
So let's get started.